Medical Specialty:Psychiatry / Psychology
Sample Name: Adjustment Disorder & Encopresis
Description: The patient was referred due to concerns regarding behavioral acting out as well as encopresis.
(Medical Transcription Sample Report)
Mother reported that the marriage is generally okay, that there is some arguing. She reported that it was in the normal range.ACADEMIC BACKGROUND:  The patient attends the Roosevelt Elementary School, where he is in a regular first grade classroom with Mrs. The patient. This is in the Kingsburg Unified School District. No behavior problems, academic problems were reported. He does not receive special education services.SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was described as being able to make and keep friends, but at this point in time, there has been no teasing regarding smell from the encopresis. He does have kids over to play at the house.PREVIOUS COUNSELING: Denied.DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY AND IMPRESSION:  My impression is that the patient has a long history of constipation and impaction, which has been treated medically, but it would appear that the mother has not followed through consistently with the behavioral component of toilet sitting, increased fiber, regular medication, so that the problem has likely continued. She also has not used any sort of rewards as a way to encourage him, in the encopresis. The patient clearly qualifies for a diagnosis of disruptive behavior disorder, not otherwise specified, and possibly oppositional defiant disorder. It would appear that mother needs help in her parenting, and that she tends to mostly use yelling and anger as a way, and tends to repeat herself a lot, and does not have a strategy for how to follow through and to deal with defiant behavior. Also, mother and father, may not be on the same page in terms of parenting.
PLAN: In terms of my plan, I will meet with the child in the next couple of weeks. I also asked the mother to bring the father in, so he could be involved in the treatment also, and I gave the mother a behavioral checklist to be completed by herself and the father as well as the teacher.DSM IV DIAGNOSES: AXIS I: Adjustment disorder with disturbance of conduct (309.3). Encopresis, without constipation, overflow incontinence (307.7)AXIS II: No diagnoses (V71.09).AXIS III: No diagnoses.AXIS IV: Problems with primary support group.AXIS V: Global assessment of functioning equals 65.
Keywords: psychiatry / psychology, developmental background, axis, dsm iv, adjustment disorder, behavioral, adjustment, depression, oppositionality, encopresis,
