Medical Specialty:Autopsy
Sample Name: Autopsy - 5
Description: Autopsy - Homicide - evidence of exsanguination - multiple stab wounds.
(Medical Transcription Sample Report)
MANNER OF DEATH:  Homicide.CAUSE OF DEATH: Exsanguination due to multiple stab and incised wounds (head, Neck, trunk, upper extremities).FINDINGS:1. Generalized pallor and evidence of exsanguination.2. Multiple stab and incised wounds of head, neck, trunk and upper extremities with one (1) stab wound penetrating left skull into brain; three (3) stab wounds penetrating right back into chest cavity and right lung; another stab wound at lateral right chest penetrating into right lung; and multiple wounds of upper extremities consistent with defensive injuries.3. Left lower lateral chest-wall abrasions and contusions with overlying rib fractures of left ribs #6, #7 and #8.4. Subarachnoid hemorrhage of right cerebrum underlying one of the large, undermined right scalp incised wounds.5. A few other minor blunt-force injuries of head and trunk.
6. Moderate emphysematous changes of lungs.LABORATORY RESULTS:  TOXICOLOGY:1. Blood: a. Ethanol: 0.16 gm%.b. Drugs: Cocaine present at less than 0.1 ug/ml; cocaethylene present at 0.2 ug/ml; quantity not sufficient for further examination.
2. Urine: Positive for cocaine, cocaine metabolite (ecgonine methyl ester),and cocaethylene, with negative EMIT barbiturates screen.3. Ocular fluid: Ethanol, 0.16 gm%.INTRODUCTIONGENERAL APPEARANCE:  The body is that of a well-developed, well-nourished, adult white man who appears the stated age of 43 years. Body height is 69 inches, and body weight is 169 lb. At autopsy, rigor mortis is generalized to late; livor mortis is posterior and slightly blanching; the body is cool to touch. Artifacts of decomposition are absent, and evidence of medical and postmortem care is absent. There is obvious evidence of multiple sharp-force injury.IDENTIFICATION:  The identity of decedent was established by circumstances of death and discovery of the body.
ROUTINE EXTERNAL EXAMINATIONCLOTHING AND VALUABLES: The body is admitted to the morgue dressed and within a sheet and shroud, and then within a body bag, and with the hands bagged.Clothing is very bloody and has injuries matching those at the trunk (see below). In addition, prior to removal of clothing, the body was examined concurrently by me and by the crime scene technician from the (edited) Police Department, and trace evidence was collected from the body and clothing. See "TRACE EVIDENCE" section at end of report. The clothing consists of a blue-and-white western-style shirt, a pair of blue jeans, a brown belt, a pair of white socks and a pair of brown cowboy-style boots. Valuables on or with the body include a cigarette lighter, a key ring with five (5) keys, a pocket knife and $16.43 in cash. The valuables are released to the mother of the decedent while the clothing is retained for the law enforcement agency.Please also see "ARTIFACTS" and "INJURIES" sections below.HEAD AND NECK: The head is normally shaped. Scalp hair is short, brown and straight with the frontal portion balding. The head, face, neck and upper shoulders show no suffusion. The irides are green; the pupils are equal and round; the sclerae are white; the conjunctivae have no petechiae and the periorbital areas have no ecchymosis. Facial hair is clean shaven. A slight amount of bloody mucus is present inn the nasal and oral cavities. The teeth are natural, and oral hygiene is good. Intraoral petechiae are not present. The neck has no deformities and has the usual range of motion without crepitus.
TRUNK:  The chest is not increased in the anteroposterior dimension but has heavy, dried blood over the xiphoid and lower sternal regions. The breasts are masculine and have no palpable masses or nipple discharge. The abdomen is soft with a modest panniculus adiposus, and there is no venous discoloration of the external wall. The back and buttocks have no natural abnormalities. The anus is moderately dilated with some reddish purple circumferential ecchymosis, but there are no lacerations and no visible scars. The external genitalia are appropriate for age and have no injuries.EXTREMITIES:  The extremities are symmetrical and without natural deformities. The legs have no significant peripheral edema and no skin atrophy. The fingernails are all of medium length except the ring fingers which are short and even. The right ring fingernail appears acutely missing but in a smooth,bloodless fashion.SCARS, TATTOOS, NEVI, INCIDENTAL FINDINGS: The low midclavicular left chest has two (2) old scars, possibly skin grafting. An old scar is at the low left paravertebral back. A short scar is at the back of the web space of the left thumb. Old scars are also at the left knee with one (1) being surgical. The back of the left wrist has a tattoo of the letters "JD". ARTIFACTS OF MEDICAL OR POSTMORTEM CARE
Keywords: autopsy, homicide, exsanguination, multiple stab, wounds, brain, skull, cocaine, cocaine metabolite, cocaethylene, barbiturates, death, autolysis, cerebrum, histologic examination, toxicology, clothing, blunt force injuries, stab wounds, incised wounds, scalloped edges, force injuries, evidence, contusions, abrasions, stab,
