Medical Specialty:IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
Sample Name: Chiropractic IME - 2
Description: Chiropractic IME with old files review. Detailed Thoracic Spine Examination.
(Medical Transcription Sample Report)
RE: EXAMINEE : Abc DATE OF INJURY : October 4, 2000DATE OF EXAMINATION : September 5, 2003EXAMINING PHYSICIAN : X Y, MDPrior to the beginning of the examination, it is explained to the examinee that this examination is intended for evaluative purposes only, and that it is not intended to constitute a general medical examination. It is explained to the examinee that the traditional doctor-patient relationship does not apply to this examination, and that a written report will be provided to the agency requesting this examination. It has also been emphasized to the examinee that he should not attempt any physical activity beyond his tolerance, in order to avoid injury.CHIEF COMPLAINT: Aching and mid back pain.HISTORY OF PRESENT INJURY:  Based upon the examinee's perspective: 
Mr. Abc is a 52-year-old self-employed, independent consultant for DEMILEE-USA. He is also a mechanical engineer. He reports that he was injured in a motor vehicle accident that occurred in October 4, 2000. At that time, he was employed as a purchasing agent for IBIKEN-USA. On the date of the motor vehicle accident, he was sitting in the right front passenger's seat, wearing seat and shoulder belt safety harnesses, in his 1996 or 1997 Volvo 850 Wagon automobile driven by his son. The vehicle was completely stopped and was "slammed from behind" by a van. The police officer, who responded to the accident, told Mr. Abc that the van was probably traveling at approximately 30 miles per hour at the time of impact.During the impact, Mr. Abc was restrained in the seat and did not contact the interior surface of the vehicle. He experienced immediate mid back pain. He states that the Volvo automobile sustained approximately $4600 in damage.He was transported by an ambulance, secured by a cervical collar and backboard to the emergency department. An x-ray of the whole spine was obtained, and he was evaluated by a physician's assistant. He was told that it would be "okay to walk." He was prescribed pain pills and told to return for reevaluation if he experienced increasing pain.He returned to the Kaiser facility a few days later, and physical therapy was prescribed. Mr. Abc states that he was told that "these things can take a long time." He indicates that after one year he was no better. He then states that after two years he was no better and worried if the condition would never get better.He indicates he saw an independent physician, a general practitioner, and an MRI was ordered. The MRI study was completed at ABCD Hospital. Subsequently, Mr. Abc returned and was evaluated by a physiatrist. The physiatrist reexamined the original thoracic spine x-rays that were taken on October 4, 2000, and stated that he did not know why the radiologist did not originally observe vertebral compression fractures. Mr. Abc believes that he was told by the physiatrist that it involved either T6-T7 or T7-T8.
Mr. Abc reports that the physiatrist told him that little could be done besides participation in core strengthening. Mr. Abc describes his current exercise regimen, consisting of cycling, and it was deemed to be adequate. He was told, however, by the physiatrist that he could also try a Pilates type of core exercise program.The physiatrist ordered a bone scan, and Mr. Abc is unsure of the results. He does not have a formal follow up scheduled with Kaiser, and is awaiting re-contact by the physiatrist.He denies any previous history of symptomatology or injuries involving his back.CURRENT SYMPTOMS: He reports that he has the same mid back pain that has been present since the original injury. It is located in the same area, the mid thoracic spine area. It is described as a pain and an ache and ranges from 3/10 to 6/10 in intensity, and the intensity varies, seeming to go in cycles. The pain has been staying constant.When I asked whether or not the pain have improved, he stated that he was unable to determine whether or not he had experienced improvement. He indicates that there may be less pain, or conversely, that he may have developed more of a tolerance for the pain. He further states that "I can power through it." "I have learned how to manage the pain, using exercise, stretching, and diversion techniques." It is primary limitation with regards to the back pain involves prolonged sitting. After approximately two hours of sitting, he has required to get up and move around, which results in diminishment of the pain. He indicates that prior to the motor vehicle accident, he could sit for significantly longer periods of time, 10 to 12 hours on a regular basis, and up to 20 hours, continuously, on an occasional basis.
He has never experienced radiation of the pain from the mid thoracic spine, and he has never experienced radicular symptoms of radiation of pain into the extremities, numbness, tingling, or weakness.Again, aggravating activities include prolonged sitting, greater than approximately two hours.Alleviating activities include moving around, stretching, and exercising. Also, if he takes ibuprofen, it does seem to help with the back pain.He is not currently taking medications regularly, but list that he takes occasional ibuprofen when the pain is too persistent.He indicates that he received several physical therapy sessions for treatment, and was instructed in stretching and exercises. He has subsequently performed the prescribed stretching and exercises daily, for nearly three years.
With regards to recreational activities, he states that he has not limited his activities due to his back pain.He denies bowel or bladder dysfunction.FILES REVIEW: October 4, 2000: An ambulance was dispatched to the scene of a motor vehicle accident on South and Partlow Road. The EMS crew arrived to find a 49-year-old male sitting in the front passenger seat of a vehicle that was damaged in a rear-end collision and appeared to have minimal damage. He was wearing a seatbelt and he denied loss of consciousness. He also denied a pertinent past medical history. They noted pain in the lower cervical area, mid thoracic and lumbar area. They placed him on a backboard and transported him to Medical Center.October 4, 2000: He was seen in the emergency department of Medical Center. The provider is described as "unknown." The history from the patient was that he was the passenger in the front seat of a car that was stopped and rear-ended. He stated that he did not exit the car because of pain in his upper back. He reported he had been wearing the seatbelt and harness at that time. He denied a history of back or neck injuries. He was examined on a board and had a cervical collar in place. He was complaining of mid back pain. He denied extremity weakness. Sensory examination was intact. There was no tenderness with palpation or flexion in the neck. The back was a little tender in the upper thoracic spine area without visible deformity. There were no marks on the back. His x-ray was described as "no acute bony process." Listed visit diagnosis was a sprain-thoracic, and he was prescribed hydrocodone/acetaminophen tablets and Motrin 800 mg tablets.
Keywords: ime-qme-work comp etc., chiropractic, deep tendon reflexes, files review, ime, motor strength, thoracic spine examination, back pain, barrel chest, compression, dextroscoliosis, exercise, fractures, intensity, kyphosis, medical examination, motor vehicle accident, pain, range of motion, thoracic spine, vertebral, multilevel degenerative disc disease, mid thoracic spine, degenerative disc disease, chiropractic wellness center, motor vehicle, vehicle accident, chiropractic ime, compression fractures, mid thoracic, tenderness, thoracic, flexion,
